
- What is a gizmo?

  A gizmo is some thing that we wish to keep track of.  For
  instance, we keep track of things we call CRTs, LCDs, systems,
  and a few others.  We record the kind of gizmos that we track
  in the gizmo types table.

- What is a gizmo type?

  A gizmo type designates a category of gizmo that we need to
  keep track of.  It can be more ("monitor") or less ("CRT",
  "LCD") general in nature.

  An entry in this table is required if we are to track gizmos
  of this type.  However, an entry in this table does not
  guarantee that in practice we actually do track this type of
  gizmo.

- What is a gizmo attribute?

  Sometimes we want to keep track of certain characteristics of
  a gizmo, usually so we can produce reports later on.  The
  characteristics that we choose are called gizmo attributes.
  Some hypothetical examples include size (esp for CRTs at the
  moment), speed.

  (Most gizmo characteristics we simply neglect:  line
  voltage, number of fans, motherboard type, etc.)

- What is a gizmo type-attribute?

  Different gizmo types have differing attributes.

  For example, a system might have a speed associated with it,
  whereas we don't tend to think of a CRT as having a speed.  On
  the other hand, a CRT might need to have a color_capability
  attribute ('mono', 'color') whereas a system would not.

  The gizmo typeattr table is a bridge table that let's us
  assign the attribute "speed" to the type "system".  This
  relates the gizmo attribute table to gizmo type table.

- How do I create an attribute "Runs PalmOS" for my gizmo type
  "pda"?

  You've already created a gizmo type called "pda" in the gizmo
  type table, right?

  Now create the attribute "Runs PalmOS" in the gizmo attr
  table.  

  Finally (??exact method is still unclear, easiest probably a
  simple double dropdown bridge table screen) relate the two by
  choosing "Runs PalmOS" attribute to apply to a "pda" type.

- What do we keep track of?

  We intend to count numbers of different types of gizmos at
  various stages during their passage into, out of (and maybe
  inside) Freegeek.

  For example, the particular system and monitor dropped off by
  Sally yesterday are not followed from entry to exit.  We will
  add one to the tallies kept for donated systems and monitors
  when she drops them off.  Later on the same piece might add
  its count to a recycling or sales tally, for instance.

  By and large we are keeping tallies, buckets.  See "What do we
  NOT keep track of?"

  In limited contexts (eg, at sale time) we might also keep some
  additional data on a gizmo, like its price, id number, and so
  on.

- What do we NOT keep track of?

  As of the current design, we will not nor do we intend
  to track particular gizmo instances.  We do not tag this
  particular system with an id and follow that id throughout its
  lifecycle at Freegeek.

- What's a gizmo context?

  When it comes to gizmos, there are a few traditional ways to
  carve up Freegeek; eg, receiving (donations), recycling,
  building, testing, selling, giving away, etc.

  Certain of these are crucial enough to tracking gizmos that
  they have been entered into the database, each one becoming a
  gizmo context:  donation, sale, grant, recycling, etc.

  Each context has its own way of viewing a gizmo, thus its own
  set of gizmo types and gizmo attributes.  For example, while
  in receiving, a monitor is a monitor is a monitor, in the
  store we might want to know that we have sold a 17-inch CRT or
  an LCD monitor.

- How can I set up or change the master lists of gizmo type /
  context / attribute / [name your table]?  
  
  Login as administrator (if that has been implemented) and choose the
  appropriate controller for the table you want to modify, then add,
  edit, delete.  It's that simple.

- I'm in the store.  I need to sell a tablet PC, but I only see
  "system" and "laptop" in the dropdown.  What do I do?

  Tell someone who can administer the database.
  
  1)  The administrator may need to add "tablet" to the gizmo
  type table as a type of "system" (or "laptop", depending on
  how things are organized, or as a full-type entity in its own
  right).

  2)  Once the "tablet" gizmo type is established, it needs to
  be made available as a drop down choice during sale.  Either
  in the gizmo types screen or in a separate "types and
  contexts" screen, choose "sale" context for the "tablet" gizmo
  type.

- How can I add a 21-inch CRT to the list of CRT sizes and give
  it a standard unit price for sales?

- What is a gizmo event?

  A gizmo event happens when 

- What is a gizmo event with attributes?

- I have a gizmo type of CRT.  How do I set up different sizes
  of monitors?

- What is a gizmo attribute type?

- What is going on in the database when we need to associate a
  gizmo event with a price or a size?
